# Sovereign Changlog

## Pre-alpha v0.60 - Feature Release
* Advanced AI - added template behaviours that determine how a given creature behaves.
* Kobolds will now actively hunt the player if they get too close to them, and otherwise maybe moving about.
* Added a actionsPerTurn property to monsters, which dictates their speed relative to the player.
* Fixed sealEdges() in worldGen which had the world width and height mixed up causing the bottom and right edges to not be sealed.
* Added some variety in the types of caves that are generated by randomizing the resolution of the smoothing and the number of iterations.

## Pre-alpha v0.50 - Feature Release
* Further refactoring.
* Removed game.js - most of the functionality was moved to gameScreen.js.
* Created screen subclasses, modularizing I/O and display.
* Added a Start screen and a Game Over Screen.
* The frame no longer has 'breakpoints' where it jumps on a specific line. Now it simply recenters on the player.
* Minor style fix for resizing the window.

## Pre-alpha v0.40 - Feature Release
* Massive refactoring
* Removed canvas.js - it was split into screen.js (handles just the display) and sovereign.js (creates the game and handles window stuff).
* Added gold (money!) and the first steps of an inventory system.
* Enemy AI! The kobolds will move around a bit and attack you. It's entirely random at the moment, so the next step will be to make their behaviour dependent on the player.
* Gold and Weapons get seeded into the world now on world generation, giving the player something to pick up.
* Reorganized the filesystem, moving things into folders, since the game's starting to get a bit big!

## Pre-alpha v0.30 - Feature Release
Took some pointers from a really comprehensive online roguelike tutorial: http://trystans.blogspot.com/2016/01/roguelike-tutorial-00-table-of-contents.html
* Refactored virtually everything involving the gameworld, paving the way for future refactoring and further encapsulation.
* Added a world generation class that can make cave-like worlds.
* Pulled colours.js and dice.js into a utility folder.
* Changed the player character's glyph colour to white, so that green can be used for other things in the world.
* Specified that this is a pre-alpha build in the version (and retroactively in the changelog).
* Added a title to the html file, so the tab isn't just the url.

## Pre-alpha v0.21 - Bugfix
* Fixed bug where attack and damage bonuses weren't being applied correctly.

## Pre-alpha v0.20 - Feature Release
* Added weapon table.
* Randomized starting weapon for player.
* Changed default creature XP.

## Pre-alpha v0.11 - Bugfix
* Re-enabled damage.

## Pre-alpha v0.10 - Feature Release
* Added version number.
* Implemented creature and player class.
* Implemented weapon class.
* Added melee combat system.
* Added leveling.
* Improved rollDice() parser to accept keeping x lowest/highest rolls.
* Created Tile class to hold terrain, creatures, and misc things that exist at a particular location, rather than an array.
* Cleaned up formatting of the stat block.

## Pre-alpha v0.01
* Initial commit